# The Pros and Cons of Microservices

The Cons:
* Higher resource overhead: When an application consists of multiple components, instead of sharing the same process space, there is a need to communicate between the components that involve higher network use. This puts more load on the entire system and increases traffic, latency, and I/O usage. In addition, the total CPU and RAM are also higher due to the extra overhead of running each component separately.
* Debugging difficulty: Troubleshooting and debugging are often more difficult when you deal with multiple services. For example, if multiple services process a request that fails, a developer needs to access the logs of multiple services in order to understand what caused the failure.
* Integration testing: Separating a system requires building a large set of integration tests and other automated checks that would monitor the compatibility and availability of each component.
* Consistency and transactions: In microservice applications, the data is often scattered across the system. While this helps to separate the independent parts of the application, it makes it harder to do transactional and atomic changes in the system.
* Divergence: Different services may use different versions of libraries, which may include incompatible or outdated ones. Divergence makes it harder to perform system upgrades and resolve various issues, including software vulnerability fixes.
* Tech debt addressability: It is much harder to address tech debt in a distributed system where each component is owned by a different team.
* Observability: Managing multiple applications brings additional challenges in collecting and using the system events and messages, including logs, traces, and metrics. Developers need to make sure all such signals are collected for all applications and are available for analysis, including all necessary contextual information to debug any issues and locate the root cause of the issue among the target services.
* Possible duplication, overlapping functionality: In a highly distributed development environment, it is not uncommon to have multiple components performing similar roles in the system. It is important to set clear boundaries within the system and decide in advance which particular roles the components are assigned.
* Ownership and accountability: Ownership becomes a major aspect of the development process when there are many different teams maintaining and developing independent components. It is crucial to define clear ownership contracts to address the development requests, security and support issues, and all other types of maintenance work.
